The is probably the most difficult part of actually making your dome usable. 
The frame is great but what are you going to do with it. Finding a way to cover a spherical surface presents challenges. 
A good place to start looking is how balls are designed.
pictures of athletic balls

Tools
nuts and washer
wrenches
scissors
ducktape
Grommets and sewing and tape

Material Choice
Sunproofing
Water proofing
Sound proofing

Wood
Plastic
Metal
Cement

I'd say an inner layer of poly is essential. 
Exterior covering vs interior or both

Vines and where to get them
Covering method will depend on the flexibility of the cover material.
Polyester is the best for sun exposure and will hold up 
Easy to cover silo domes or Bucky tubes. Wrapping rectangular covering around the cylinder Building space frame awnings 
just wrapping on a soup can
Non absorbent materials to resist and/or prevent absorbtion. 
Hold up interior wallpaper with magnets 
Corner to corner triangle 
Best paneling method is trapezoidal/rectangle 
Whatever is taking the sunlight and weathering, you don't want that entering your dome space. 
Putting on duck tape the reliable way 

Safety
Could be mold or off gassing or dust and dirt or water. 
Water weight concern for covering and roofing. 

Methods
The first style of covering is to use dome geometry

The first thought to covering a dome would be to use shapes already present on the dome.
So we would first start with triangles
picture
Or
Use pentagons and hexagons Soccerball method or Fullerene.
picture of soccer ball
Or
Use the triangles on the principal polyhedra. The faces of the icosahedron.
or the half fullerene paneling


The Beachball method
Like the name states, the covering will be based on forming wedges together to complete a dome.

The Mummy method
This involves a long strip of fabric that is wrapped spiraling around the dome. 
You may have to cut some sections and start at a different point to properly cover the dome. 
There will be a lot of overlap with this method.

The panel method
This involves using shapes in way that aren't part of the dome's geometry. 
We take one shape attach it to the dome, overlapping as needed. 
This is probably the simplest method because we only need one shape. 
Of these shapes the rectangle will probably be the simplest since most building materials and fabrics are rectangular. 
Place the rectangles along the rows of the domes and overlap them in a way that rain will naturally shed off the cover.




