Though are ways to get by without power, you might find yourself being inconvienced.

Getting efficient appliances
The lower the demands of your appliances, the lower your power needs will be.
Then your power setup can be much simpler to put together.

Sources of power, processing that power, transporting, storing.

Can I charge a fridge direct from solar panel, compressor is a sensitive piece and their are two common types of charge, induction and startup. 

Lighting Glow in the dark geodesic dome Going direct from solar panel batteries other than lead acid.
Solar Fusing panels in series can cause problems in the shade 
Paint area in front of solar panel white or use reflective pool of water
Mirrors increase solar output


Computer
Desktop (game console) vs Laptop vs Tablet vs Smart Phone
The choice will usually be based on your needs but also power consumption.
Laptops at this point can use as little as 2-3 watts an hour. That is with the screen. But it will cost you.
Battery powered Laptop and tablet and smartphone can several hours and you might be able to do away with a battery setup and have a panel directly these.

Using your high power appliances during the day.

Turn old grill into oven Turn a thermos into a refrigerator

Bigger is better, larger things will keep their temperature better than smaller things, if you've ever been through winter, the large piles of snow are the last things to melt. 
This is due volume because their is so much snow it takes longer for it to melt. 
The same holds true in a fridge, the more cold air, the longer it will take to get hot. 
The air at the center will remain coldest the longest.


Buying land Nomadic, national parks have a rule usually for primitive camping, you can stay in one location for 2 weeks then you must move to a different location at least 200 feet away. 
Buying Land offgrid 


Sources of power, processing that power, transporting, storing.
Induction fan will blow based on power coming from panel.

link to dome ventilation book
Sucking inward can provide a good demonstration of using buoyancy negative and fluid movement. 
This is only applicable if you have evaporation happening. Even though the air temperature does not change, 
your body temperature will because you are sweating, or there is moisture in your skin. 
In high humidity areas this can be countered with more win speed. 
This will happen if you either make the opening bigger or/and make the entrance smaller. 
Do you remember voltage and amperage, this same process is happening when we use an inverter. 
We trade a decrease in the amount in wind the dome for an increased rate of flow. 
Power a turbine with buoyant pressure. 
Your dome is a pressure generator? Use wasted air movement for cooling. 
Much in the same way we would concentrate a beam of light to heat something or a stream of water to power something. 
So too we can with air. Harness and redirect air power with a dome. What is the downside? We need a lot to power a little. 
Much like a magnifying glass. We, however, weren't using this in the first place, so this is beneficial to us. 
Funnels concept in practice




Sources of power, processing that power, transporting, storing.
Thermos cooking
Baking on your stove top burner

240 at 70 160 watts per day 60 degrees 120 watts 50 80 watts 40 40 watts 30

You also gain the natural temperature from the ground.

Putting a fan to thaw frozen faster Convection Heating methods most efficient Gas vs induction vs conduction Water thermal mass walls and flooring. Insulate the outside 
The essentials Glowing red firebrick vs pail of water  

The uses if hot water for cooking and heating. 
Water holds a lot of heat and is easy to heat, no smells, no burning. 
Reheating food by using hot water is an excellent way to warm a meal or cook even if you've got a thermos. 

Thermos in fridge A thermos within a thermos within thermos Smaller fridge with heavy insulation 
Boiling water with heating element Boiling water with magnified sunlight Boiling water with just sunlight 

Fridges won't work as efficiently when cold so they will run longer when on, but will turn on less frequently 

Thermos cooking Heating water with rocks, sand and granite 
Bucky passive cooling myth 
Compressed air in a heat pump air conditions same as fridge 
Diurnal fridge like a cross between ice cooler and fridge. 

Powder will heat faster but also cool faster 

Don't trade in your propane tank Refill the same one. 
You are paying for exactly what you bought. 
Some tanks aren't filled to capacity but you are paying more for less. 

Peeing in bottles to conserve heat 
Human body 400 btus per hour converted to watts that about 100 watt hours 
HEATING & COOLING
The essentials Glowing red firebrick vs pail of water
Heat transfer similar to blowing up a balloon that has a leak, trying to keep it inflated.
Brick vs water Size of water container
Shaping your bricks to regulate the flow of heat coming from it
Putting a fan to thaw frozen faster
Convection Heating methods most efficient Gas vs induction vs conduction
Water thermal mass walls and flooring.
Insulate the outside
Fridges won’t work as efficiently when cold so they will run longer when on, but will turn on less frequently
Thermos cooking
Heating water with rocks, sand and granite
Powder will heat faster but also cool faster
Hammocks vs ground sleeping warmth
Peeing in bottles to conserve heat
Simple diagram of refrigeration
Bucky passive cooling myth
Human body 400 btus per hour converted to watts that about 100 watt hours
Bigger is better, larger things will keep their temperature better than smaller things, if you’ve ever been through winter, the large piles of snow are the last things to melt. This is due volume because their is so much snow it takes longer for it to melt. The same holds true in a fridge, the more cold air, the longer it will take to get hot.
The air at the center will remain coldest the longest.
The simplest fridge is a cooler.
To contain their temperature. Which is better white or silver. High gloss white or reflective aluminum foil. Don’t use the foil used for cooking it has somewhat different properties. Black absorbs heat, white reflects it . Infrared vs uv/visble light and their appropriate reflecttive, emissive, and translucent properties
are space blankets really that effective, or convection always going to pull away



OFFGRID
Blacklight Murals

Electricity
command line only computer
kindle using lynx text browser
lynx web browser and optional color schemes and fonts
caching webpages to save power on computer

foundational and infrastructure
shelter and power systems
beginning electronics
power a lot on little

Yes, there is a page devoted to lightning.
I fear lightning especially inside my dome. You may have hearfd that domes are a faraday cage. This isn't exactyl true.
A Faraday Cage is what you want if you are to be protected from things like lightning, kind of the ultimate guard against electricity.
But this  only works if your cage is entirely closed. This is true of a geodesic sphere [bold] but not a dome.
The problem is the ground and an important concept called step potential. 
It can kill you. Just like these reindeer. Nope, that was not lightning.
That was step potential. If you were a ballerina, you'd be perfectly safe on one tip toe.
So I know how dangerous this is, but how do I stop it. 
There are no guarentees with lightning as it is still a misunderstood phenomenon even by the experts.
ballerina on tip toe
put warning signs like in javascript info


