WEBSITE DESIGN
webpage maker calculators
create a manual calculation step by step sheet

then add styling
testing calculator and js
minimum flattened area based on hexagon and pipe diameter




Cutting
Flattening
Making Holes


first calc
overarching calculator to help decide which main calculator. shows strut lengths and costs
on calculator put in geodesics constants optimal dome struts size calculator
make a table of different dome calculations based on 10 foot poles
will be easy for others to use

best shapes
best shape have numbers and surface area to volume ratio increasing to show that larger is better also



Library



diydomebuilders+ form
recommend creating your own website through a static site generator, have a links on how to do that.
add robert clark
Youtube channels
display options for possible fields in diydomebuilders+ select and options, include tooltips about what each category is. 

make it similar to favicon generator, explain each section and what it does, offer an other option
create tooltips with images to expalin what each head is, have link within tooltip to allow for more information
TABLE INTERFACE
json speed inside of code
have view and download options

What is your dome used for?
How did you design your dome?
How did you build your dome?
How did you assemble your dome? top down bottom up?
What kind of hub system did you use?
What kind of covering did you use for your dome?

have on hover to show picture in tables, especially calculators tables, possibly include desert domes calcs and simply different.


get tool tips designed
optimizing site speed
website anaylitics
how to secure your website and email personal
how to section forms in multiple choice
visual site mapping
keeping track of analytics and displaying informtion for public view.
show analytics on website, visulaize data
is an icosa really a 2v tetrahedron? 

Geodesic Dome
	Design
		Form
		Best Shapes
		Best Size
		Geodesics
			shell(membrane) vs frame, 
				the shell is the frame and cover, whereas frame needs cover, compared to flange nuts and nuts and washers, minimizing components.
				But is there really a difference? The difference is scale. If we were to look at an egg microscopically, you would see something similar to a frame.
				Another difference is overlapping system, what is the difference between a sheet of plywood and a frame section with cover already attached?
			Parent Polyhedra
			Profile
			Frequency
			Class
			Breakdown 
			Size
			Height
		Real World App
				best of volume floor area surface area. These three categories deal with maximizing material for your structure.
				For example, a bowl or dome is the ideal shape for holding the most volume for the least material. A sphere also works.
				Stepping into reality, the best shapes for the kinds of things you want from your structure, 
				such as heating you will want a sphere, or the list of closed shapes,
				for wind, flat surfaces may not be a good choice,
			Permenant vs temporary.
				This is going to help you decide what you should do.
		Material
			Best Materials
				Earth, Air, Water, Fire
				Stone, Wood, Metal, Plastic
			Hub System
			Where to go form here
				If you are looking at plastic such as pvc then you may want to head over to zip-tie domes for advice on how to do that.
				If you are looking at wood, then you may want to head over to paul robison's site.
				If you are looking at using metal, then you may want to keep reading here and desert domes and domerama. The is the most common way to build
		
	Build
		Fabrication
			Logistics, How much do you want done for you? You can create your own poles or you can buy a kit, or have someone set it up for you. 
				just like baking that cake. You can grow your own wheat, grind, sift it, and so forth. Or you can buy a kit with all of the ingredients.
				The idea applies to your tools as well, there is the tradeoff between time and money. But you also gain knowledge about for that time spent.
				Cutting
				Flattening
				Drilling
				Bending
			Covering
				Plastic Sheeting
		Assembly
			Organizing
			Bottom up and Top down, technically others.
			Covering
			Anchoring
			Grounding
				Lightning is something to respect. These reindeer, well yeah. The interesting thing about this photo is that is wasn't exactly lightning that killed them.



CALCULATORS
Put a table of contents in the picture side by side for struts and bolts
have view as one page
create table for possible dome combos and flat base or not.
have input available for pole length, diameter
in page links for rquired fields on inputs if someone forgot to click it 
make sure to put ft or m in large text to clarify measurement system 
? question  in black circle in white font to indicate information about pipe
expandable tab calculator, no scroll just clicking
no pictures and instead excel like spread sheets of materials
mini box with needed values to clarify flattening requirements or other fields
put everything in a div box with outline to organize content on page
advanced section with more details about dome dimension

FABRICATION IDEAS
Cutting
Drill attachment to grip cylinder
SPring loaded disc to cut pipe
Could use a sharpened tool steel washer
Drilling
Start with a smaller bit and then go bigger sizes to reduce wear and tear
Can also use oil to reduce friction and further wear and tear.
Flattening
Use drill to turn reciprocating motion into rotary machine
Alternatively use bolts to smash together pipe
or your car
Fine thread vs coarse thread
Construction
Bolts with lock nuts
Nylon on lock nuts may be prone to degradation from uv radiation
Use white plastic sheeting
No duck tape just have a better overlap, gilling, Gilling will allow your dome to breath from the inside out if too much pressure is inside. The air pressure will push out these sections.
Cement over geotextile, preferably cement to reduce 2 steps into one.
Tetrahedrons and chain hoist for lifting.
i tried everythig from sand, mud, clay, cement, lime, milk casein. Cement had the best results
to mitigate the use of coarse thread over fine thread, a lock nut can offer an extra level of security to your dome.
drilling will be easier with smaller holes, can be done with hand drill for smaller bolt sizes

DOME IDEAS
one strut length dome. yes it can be done but we have to combine dome sizes
rotating ladder for larger domes in order to make repairs, probably can find picture of same used on large storage domes.



MAIN
make holiday themed nav menu and header.
night and day option for harsh eyes
svgs to switch to white, toned down versions of white and black not so much contrast.
make website able to be ran again offline, Have as PDF file as well, 1st edition use 1V icosahedron, the new domebook

