Assembly & Anchoring

Strut sorting
Sorting struts, you don't have to lay them all out individually. 
A technique I find useful is the struts up and standing them on end. 
This immediately seperates struts of varying length from one another. 
Then pull the longest ones out first and you can quickly organize your struts.



Assembly


Pros and Cons of topdown vs bottom up vs hybrid

Tools (have pictures)
Struts
Nuts and Bolts
portable drill
wrenches
ratchet wrench set
types of wrenches

Safety
Using power tools while on ladder can be dangerous.
The torque from the drill can cause you to lose your balance and can fall Not recommended, dangerous

Going Ladderless assembly offers another level of safety.

Sagging
Sagging is going to happen on your dome, the heavier and/or longer the struts, the more pronounced it will be. 
If you are building a small dome you likely wont hae any noticeable sagging, not enough at least to prevent you from getting your dome put together.
How to prevent sagging. A 2x4 or any stiff pole will work. You will need to push the hub section near the hub you are trying to put together.

Strut Placement
Strut placement should go 
top struts on outside
Mid struts middle
Bottom struts on outside
Bolts in or out

Methods
Bottom-up
	Pros of bottom up
	Can be done built with one person and no equipment
	You know exactly what space your dome covers
	Good for smaller domes
	Cons
	Will take longer than top down
	Construct with one strut at a time
	Using four at a time is not recommended
	Struts may bend if too long or heavy
	Also there will be sagging after 58%
	This will make construction more difficult

Use smaller dome as scaffolding 
Securing base to support first row of struts 

pictures of 
Ladder
and scaffolding

Top-down
	Pros of top down
	Is safer since no ladder required
	Heavier or longer struts won’t sag
	Good for bigger domes
	Can work well domes that have shorter struts
	Dome is stable
	Cons
	Requires equipment to lift Or a lot of people depending on dome size
	A lot of effort to construct

	How many people will I need for a top down assembly 
	 Major benefits of topdown vs bottom up 
	You can use power tools safely from the ground Power tools mean a faster and safer setup 
	On ladders one false step could mean you falling off the ladder U
	sing power tools while on a ladder is not recommended 

	Top down push dome up pull dome up Pull up from peak Pull up from sides on ground People to pull up
	Lift with counterweights water or sand Fluids will allow for precise lifting 
	Lifting strap Minimum of 3 to support Building supports
	Rocking a top up dome in place or rolling wedge method 

	Hoist method Frame bumps into and moves tripod while lifting 
	Lift off ground a little bit first, then commence lifting incrementally 

	Crane method tree, if your dome is tall enough to reach the crane after complete, you can remove it from there. 
	And during assembly climb up top to attach again. Rope and sling method initially.

pictures of hoist, crane, and people lifting dome
chain block and tackle
Rebirth of Papachanga
hoisting the dome from the bottom with tripod hoists or people
or the top with a crane.

You can use spacers if your dome is light enough to lift. 

It may help to do increments if it starts to flex too much. 

Rope over tree branch Eye bolt would be necessary 
How to do top down Hoists Crane

Hybrid
	Hybrid
	Build bottom up to the height that your ladder can reach
	Then lift with many people to complete the bottom rows
	Pros
	You have a good idea of your dome coverage
	Requires flipping Top up
	Can work with domes that have short struts
	Dome is stable from start Bottom down Side to side
	Struts to hexagons then piecing together
	Or large triangles
	Pulling off ladder less construction

You assemble the dome bottom up as high as you comfortable with
and the finish with the top down method.




Problems during assembly
Struts are wrong size Because they were measured wrong 
Sometimes it can be made to work You can either cut a new to struts to make it fit Or mislabeled.
You'd be surprised how forgiving domes can be. I've put together domes where the struts were off a couple inches, and it went together.
NOt easily and looked kinda different but it worked.

Is there a bottom down or top up? 
Bowls, domes and spheres Spheres can be built from all 4 methods Bowls are bottom down or top up? 
Point of view only if you flip it So Domes or bowls are both bottom up or top down 

If this is your first dome, you might be a little hesitant too climb on it. 
Rightly so, stay near hubs during your first climb and move out within your own comfort zone. 


Creating a entrance, not recommended to alter the shape of entrance, dome will lose integrity this way. 
Focus on constructing a door that fits to the dome and not a dome that fits to the door.

Cover assembly
For covering Less overlap on bottom More overlap up top 


Anchoring
Methods
ground screw, earth screw.

these work great and it is recommended to install after you done assembly the dome.
these work well where the soil is suitable.
on sandy soils it may not be the best choice.
the dome with be flexing during assembly and you dont want to limit it flexing, because some struts might not go in.
Screw in posts, fence posts to hold up dome assembly. 
How to bend rebar Take your rebar to the next level with curly rebar, spiraled rebar creates a stronger anchor 

If your struts are small enough you can fit them inside an earth screw. 





Overview
-
How do I assemble my dome?

There are 2 methods that are commonly used to assemble a dome. And a third being a combination of the two.

Cinque Terre
Bottom-Up
Cinque Terre
Top-Down
Cinque Terre
Hybrid
Strut Placement

Before moving to assembly, there is an order of placement for the struts.
The bottom struts should point towards the inside.
The middle struts should be in-between the bottom and top struts.
The top struts should point towards the outside.


Tools

Tools you will need are called wrenches.
There are a few different types you can use.

Cinque Terre
Adjustable Wrench
Cinque Terre
Socket Wrench
Cinque Terre
Socket Wrench + Drill


A socket wrench attachment to a drill will make assembling go immensly faster.
You may need to use a socket wrench to do finishing tightenings.
Bottom-Up
-
What is bottom-up?

Bottom-up is the commonly used method for smaller domes.


You will want to begin by laying out your bottom struts


Then bolt them all together. Since we are using bottom-up, you will want to have your bolts pointing outward. This will make assembly much safer and easier.


The bottom row will need to be tight, this will allow you to bolt the following struts without the dome caving inward.


If you don't tighten them, the dome will collapse because it does not have enough support yet. This step is crucial.


Once you have the first row up and standing, you can begin bolting together rest of the dome. These bolts don't need to be tight.


Depending on how big your dome is, you may eventually get to a point where you can't reach the bolts.

There are a few options of getting you to your bolts.

Cinque Terre
Ladder/Stool
Cinque Terre
Scaffolding/Dome
Cinque Terre
Climbing Method

Whichever you use, you will most likely encounter some sagging.
This usually isn't a problem if your struts aren't too heavy and/or long.
You will need to push the struts outward in order for the holes to line up. Then you cvan place the bolt in the holes.



fgdhfghdfghdfghdfgh


Top-Down
-
What is top-down?

Top-down is a good choice for larger domes (>30 ft diameter) .


You will want to begin by laying the 5 five for the top pentagon. And bolt these together.


Next complete putting the struts for the sides of the pentagon. Make sure all of the bolts are tight and pointing inward.
When putting on the next layer, any loose bolts will cause the pentagon to flex and make it difficult to put the dome together.

There are a few options in which to proceed.

Cinque Terre
Hoisting/Pulling from top or sides, crane, from tree, for tripods on sides.
Cinque Terre
Jacking/Pushing from top or sides, people lifting.


Whichever you decide, you should be aware that the dome tipping or swinging is a concern.


Once you lift, carefully remove the nut from the bolt. Then place the appropriate struts to the hub section.


Continue this pattern until you reach the bottom.


You will likely at some point encounter sagging during your assembly. The solution for this in the top-down method is to push in the finished hub sections outward. 2x4s will work but you may need something to keep it locked into the ground.



Top-Down
-
Can I climb on my dome once assembled?

If this is your first dome, you might be a little hesitant too climb on it. Rightly so, stay near hubs during your first climb and move out away from within your own comfort zone.






