dometypes

There are a few add-ons which can open up what you can do with your dome.

Wood hub Only requires hand drill Saw Bend 
Drill holes in wood at an angle to account for bends Bent bolt hub. 
Bent bolt alters the direction of the strut Hoop ring hub for 2x4 Attached to earth anchor hoop underground 
Open ring to slide in struts To close ring, lock back into place Gate rings Wood and bolt dome 
Difference in height on bolt creates different required strut lengths. 
Might be able to make struts all the same length by controlling placement on bolt. 

Dome elevator to crow's nest 

Dome second floor or story or multiples

TYPES
The bucky tube or fullerene
Only Requires one type of strut. And only two different bends.

Glow in the dark dome
paint your struts and covering with glow in the dark paint

Vine Dome
If you just have a frame you can wrap vines or other plant around the dome. 
It will eventually cover the dome completely. Providing you a large shaded area. 
Create one outside of your covered dome the gain the benefits of shade. 
Structural demands aren't high so flattened hubs can be used.

Plywood Dome

Observatory


MANUFACTURING
The Flattened Conduit Hub is probably the most common way to build a dome for small scale projects. 
This method probably the easiest as well. 


The conduit dome only requires two parts. The struts and the nuts/bolts.
This makes things incredibly simple.
So what size strut should I get. 

Metal tubing has 3 dimensions
The Length
The diameter
And the wall thickness, also referred to as gauge.

The shorter, the harder it will be to bend
The bigger diameter the harder it will be to bend
The bigger gauge the harder it will be to dent. Increasing the wall thickness will make it harder to bend, but is an inefficient practice to make it harder to bend.

There is a certain ratio you want to aim for to get the best use out of all the steel (or other metal) you are buying. 
To find the ideal size you want to refer to something called a standard dimension ratio. 
The d/t ratio you’re looking for is 50. 
For example, if your wall thickness is .065 in. (16 gauge) then ideally you would want a tube that has a diameter of 3.25 inch. 
This would give you the best bang for your buck. 
Just remember that you will need to get the appropriate length of tubing to your dimensions. 
strength vs stiffness steel is usually priced by weight, so if you want to get the best bang for your buck, then you are going to want large diameter thin wall tubes. 
2 inch EMT conduit is 16 gauge as 1 ¼ inch is also 16 gauge. So 2 inch EMT would be a better choice although it will be more expensive. 
But stronger for the price you are paying. 
Longer won’t be as strong but will afford you a larger dome if you are using a low frequency. tube domes


SLENDERNESS Ratio
The center of the struts will be the weakest part of the dome. 
If something fails, it will most likely be here. 
If placing something at the hub sections, you will need a great deal of weight to bring it in. 
So what about the struts. To make the best use of material, you will be looking out for something called a standard dimension ratio. 
The ratio refers to the diameter to wall thickness of the pipe. 
The ideal ratio will be a ratio of 50 to 1. 
Then test differing lengths of that material to see what it can and cannot do. 
Once you have lengths decided, then you can see what size dome you will be capable of building. 
Too thin of a wall should be considered as well for flatteed sectyions, as it might deform easily. 
The only other part of your dome is the nuts and bolts. What size should you choose. 
Again it will all be matter of what you want to do with it. 1/4 inch are fully capable of holding your together without issue. 
But you plan on twisting your dome or moving it or hanging things from the bolts in directions the bolts aren't deigned for, 
then you may want to look at 3/8 inch or 1/2 inch for the bigger domes.


Bolt Dimensions

Bolt Diameter

Bolt Grade

Bolt Type

Bolt Length

longer bolts will make assembly easier, especially if you've made a few errors or the dome is sagging inward. 
longer bolts will also allow for attachment of a cover. 
You will need to consider how thick the wall of your conduit is, double that, and then add up how many 6 struts will amount to. 
Then size the nut. That ought to be your minimum bolt length. bolt type Hex head bolts are the most common bolt type. 
Carriage bolts are also used. 
Be sure to use washers if you use carriage bolts. 
You don't want the bolts punching through the struts. 
Flange nuts and bolts are recommended as they reduce the parts needed to construct your dome and they will also provide a better connection than washers. 
Eye bolts vs eye nuts Eye nuts have more leverage available so won't be as strong as eye bolts Such a thing as too much insulation

Avoid too long of bolts. This makes fitting difficult because the theoretical diameter is different on bolts than it is the actual dome. 

Can my bolts be too long? Yes, I wouldn't exceed using 3 inch during assembly. However after assembling a hub section, it will be easy to a bolt of any length through. 

CUTTING
pipe cutter
hacksaw
sawzall
powersaw

FLATTENING
Sledgehammer
press
hammer

HOLE MAKING
hand drill
drill press
hole punch

BENDING
Press
Vice


ADDON
Crows nest
riser wall, also a fullerene variant

Extras
-
Do I need to paint my struts?
Painting your struts to prevent them from rusting usually isn't necessary. You paint if you are going to use it in an environment with extreme weather, especially coastal regions.
However, it is recommended that you have some way of iddentifying your struts, this usually done via painting. Althought you could tie a string around struts as an alternative.

Cinque Terre
Painting

Do I need to deburr holes?
Deburring is a good idea. Usually you will have burrs from drilling. These may fall off later on when assembling or moving the struts.
Which could be a problem for anyone walking around. Metal shavings can be problematic if you step on one or cut yourself while assembling.
Cinque Terre
Painting



