Choosing the right kind of dome can be complicated decision as there are many ways you can go with it.

So first we are going to discuss the pros and cons of each types and then you can decide which will work best for you.

Math

The rounder the better. 
	The more sphere-like a structure is the more efficient it is with surface area to volume ratio.
	Also is the case with perimeter to area ratio.
	But what about domes?
	Domes are special in the sense that we are already using the ground as a side, so in that case domes or bowls become the most efficent choice.

The bigger the better.
	As the size of any shape increases, the more it will be having more volume with less surface area.
	So a big dome would be better.
They other end though, is assembly, which the larger it is the more tools and help you will likely need for assembly.
Working from heights poses many dangers especially for a diy'er.


Geodesics

frequency
	this goes along with having a sphere-like structure which offers greater surface area to volume ratio
	however, a higher frequency makes your dome susectiple to popping in. 
	This can pose issues if in rain and snow and possibly wind which can contribute to more popping in.
	Higher frequencies also demand more hardware and more material.
	They do allow for larger domes.
	Low frequency has fewer materials and you can hang weight at the hubs with more confidence than at larger frequencies.

breakdown method


profile
	is what portion of the sphere you are using, 1/1, 1/2, 1/4
	The 1/2 domes gives the most efficient way to cover space, and the sphere the best for surface area to volume ratio, containing heat for example.
	1/4 will perform well against very high winds
	3/4 will give you the comfortable interior, curved wall can gives the feeling of crampedness.

polyhedra
	icosahedron is the most commonlyy used polyhedra, it offers fewer struts and ones of more equal length than the other polyhedra.

class
	class I are the most common,
	class II was the original used
	class III is used most for mathematical investigations.

Build and assembly

rigid vs structured vs ?
	rigid offers you portablility as you can roll up your cover and bundle the struts together.
	a structured design will offers you a greater simpilicity in materials.

material
	your common choices are metal, wood, and plastic
	metal is a reliable material, but can be expensive compared to the rest, though for diy the advantages outweigh the others.
	though some have ventured as far as using ice see here.

tools and work
	another design consideration is the amount of work required to construct your dome
	as well as the tools required


addons
	there are numerous add ons you can make for your dome
	one fo the most common is a riser wall
	the riser can make the dome feel alot less cramped.
even though the dome excels at covering space, the curvature of the walls can create a feeling of crampedness
Another cause is the lack of surface area, which creates an emptiness in the dome attributing the feeling smaller than it is.



